Session 1: NDN Trial Deployments
Publishing Genomics Datasets into NDN Testbed and Integrating with
Cloud Workﬂows
       F. Alex Feltus            Clemson University
       Susmit Shannigrahi        Tennessee Tech University
       Stephen Ficklin           Washington State University
       Rini Pauly                Clemson University
       Cole Mcknight             Clemson University
       David Reddick             Tennessee Tech University
       Tyler Biggs               Washington State University
       Cameron Ogle              Clemson University


Background
    The genomics community has made astronomical progress in recent decades. Thanks to medium-cost
DNA sequencing machines, the genomics community is rapidly approaching the computational petascale at
universities and research centers. For example, in 12 years the SRA repository at the National Center for
Biotechnology Information (NCBI) has accumulated >42 petabytes of high-throughput DNA sequence data.
There are many other similar genomic data repositories around the world including Japan’s DDBJ, EU/UK’s
Ensembl, and NASA’s GeneLab. All datasets are complemented with valuable metadata representing evo-
lutionary relationships, biological sample sources, measurement techniques, and biological conditions.
    While there is metadata overlap between repositories, a common data aggregation site for sharing data is
needed — an NDN framework. Furthermore, it is common for users of compute resources in close proximity
to use the same genomic datasets. By using the NDN framework with its built-in caching mechanism,
commonly used datasets can exist closer to where they are being analyzed. The result is a framework for
unprecedented data aggregation between heterogeneous metadata environment and accessibility that can be
applied to many disciplines across computational science.

Named Genomics Data
    As part of the NSF SciDAS project (#1659300), we have developed Pynome, a Python com-
mand line interface tool that provides the user with a way to download desired genome as-
sembly ﬁles from the Ensembl database (https://github.com/SystemsGenetics/pynome).            We
have preprocessed all multicellular genomes and given them names based upon standardized evo-
lutionary relationship metadata as well as repository metadata.     Our data naming structure
is semantically meaningful, hierarchical, and will make sense to the bioinformaticists across ge-
nomics communities.     Here is an example data naming hierarchy for an NCBI SRA gene ex-
pression dataset: /BIOLOGY/SRA/9605/9606/NaN/RNA-Seq/ILLUMINA/TRANSCRIPTOMIC/PAIRED/Kidney/
PRJNA359795/SRP095950/SRX2458154/SRR5139394/SRR5139394_1>SRR5139394_1.fastq.gz


                                                     1
   These genomes are being published into the NDN scientiﬁc testbed that was created at Colorado State
and since been extended to sites across the country. We are also publishing gene expression datasets from the
42+ PB SRA repository that includes NCBI-SRA-Animal Example (0.16 TB; 36X2 SRA Samples; Human
kidney) and NCBI-SRA-Plant Example (1.14 TB; 475X2 SRA Samples; Rice leaves). These datasets were
published using NDN-Python-repo and available to genomics researchers for download.

Workﬂow-NDN Testbed Interaction
   We have containerized all NDN software and tested those containers in the Google Cloud Platform
(GCP), Paciﬁc Research Platform (PRP), and TACC Rodeo Kubernetes (K8s) clusters. We have pulled
data from the NDN testbed into genomics workﬂows using the Data Transfer Pod (DTP; https://github.
com/SciDAS/dtp) that can pull data from multiple sources and land the data onto a K8s namespace PVC.
Finally, we have adapted the GEMmaker https://github.com/SystemsGenetics/GEMmaker) containerized
workﬂow to run Nextﬂow gene expression mapping containers on each K8s system.

Advantages
    Publishing datasets over NDN allows for popular datasets to be automatically cached in the network.
The datasets can be cached in the cloud platform running workﬂow containers, signiﬁcantly speeding up data
retrieval. Additionally, the researchers can deploy jobs to cloud locations where data is already retrieved
and available, reducing time for completing a workﬂow.
    Linking DTP with NDN is an improvement over the current methods where the containers must be
pre-conﬁgured with the URLs of the datasets. Once deployed, the containers stick to the pre-conﬁgured
sources of data. With NDN, the data source can change based on network conditions, data availability, and
the distance between computation and data.
    Since NDN provides a more ﬂexible way to cache and distribute data to Genomics workﬂows, we have also
created an HTTP-NDN interface. When requested data is not available in the NDN testbed, we automatically
download and publish the datasets into the NDN testbed using the naming scheme we describe above. The
beneﬁts of retrieving data over NDN are location independence, in-network caching, and ﬂexible forwarding
of requests.


Data-Centric Ecosystems for Large-scale Data-Intensive Science
       Edmund Yeh         Northeastern University
    Data-centric networking is becoming increasingly important for large-scale data-intensive science. This
talk will discuss recent results and future prospects for building data-centric distribution, caching, access,
and analysis systems for major science programs.
    We ﬁrst discuss the NSF-funded SANDIE project, a collaboration among Northeastern, Caltech and
Colorado State Universities, which aims to develop and deploy a Named Data Networking (NDN)-based
platform for the Large Hadron Collider (LHC) high energy physics program, one of the world’s largest big
data applications. This project recently ﬁnished a major demo at SC19, which showed live that NDN can
eﬃciently index and deliver LHC high energy physics data over a transcontinental layer-2 testbed (Boston-
Denver-Los Angeles) at over 6.7 Gbps (using a single thread). The demo also showed how optimized caching
algorithms can decrease download times by a factor of 10.
    We next introduce the newly awarded NSF project N-DISE, led by Northeastern, Caltech, UCLA, and
Tennessee Tech, which will produce a highly eﬃcient and ﬁeld-tested NDN-based petascale data distribution,
caching, access, and analysis system serving major science programs including LHC high energy physics and
the BioGenome and human genome projects. Building on the results of SANDIE, N-DISE will develop high-
throughput caching and forwarding methods, containerization techniques, hierarchical memory management
subsystems, congestion control mechanisms, integrated with FPGA acceleration subsystems, to produce a
system capable of delivering LHC and genomic data over wide area networks at throughputs approaching
100 Gbps, with signiﬁcantly decreased download times.



                                                      2
mGuard Project Overview
       Lan Wang              University of Memphis
       Santosh Kumar         University of Memphis
       Lixia Zhang           UCLA
    This talk will give an overview of the new NSF funded mGuard project. mGuard aims to address
two major data access challenges encountered by the NIH Center of Excellence for Mobile Sensor Data-to-
Knowledge (MD2K) in its pursuit to share mobile health (mHealth) data among researchers who investigate
a wide range of health and wellness issues. First, because wearable sensor data may expose privacy-sensitive
information about a user, they should be accessed only by authorized users; currently this access control is
largely handled manually, incurring high overhead and subject to human errors. Second, to enable real-time
intervention for certain medical conditions, researchers need to retrieve and process the sensor data in real-
time, which is not supported at this time. mGuard tackles the above challenges by utilizing the results from
the NSF-supported Named Data Networking (NDN) initiative, in particular the solutions that automate
the cryptographic key management for data access control (name-based access control, or NAC) and the
solutions that enable real-time synchronization among distributed datasets (NDN Sync). First, mGuard
utilizes and extends NDN NAC to automate ﬁne-grained access control of conﬁdential data to authorized
researchers. Second, it utilizes NDN Sync to provide real-time data production notiﬁcation; based on this,
it enables applications to publish and subscribe to data in real time by directly using MD2K data names.
These new capabilities will be deployed in the MD2K cyberinfrastructure.


FABRIC - Capabilities and Use-cases
       Ilya Baldin     RENCI/UNC Chapel Hill
    FABRIC is a 4-year NSF-funded Mid-Scale construction project that by 2023 will deploy a world-wide
experimental network infrastructure intended to support experimentation with stateful network protocols,
applications and architectures. Using a combination of dedicated 100G and Terabit links the infrastructure
will link FABRIC nodes together with experimental testbeds (NSF Clouds, PAWR facilities), HPC centers,
scientiﬁc instruments and public clouds to create a rich environment for experimentation with a variety of
applications and protocols that want to take advantage of in-network data processing, fusion and storage.
This talk will brieﬂy describe the status of FABRIC project and its expected capabilities in supporting this
advanced experimentation



Session 2: ICN for Wireless Edge Networking
Introduction to the ICN-WEN Program and Learnings from NDN
       Srikathyayani Srikanteswara         Intel
    The joint Intel/NSF ICN-WEN Center recently completed its 3 year tenure successfully. This short talk
will give a brief overview of the setup of the center. The talk will also brieﬂy touch upon some of our own
experiences with NDN during this journey, and ways to increase its value proposition for industry.


SPLICE: Secure Predictive Low-Latency Information Centric Edge for
Next Generation Wireless Networks
       Srinivas Shakkottai       Texas A&M University
   The ﬁfth generation of wireless communication promises to provide Gigabits per second data transfer rates


                                                      3
and communication delays of less than a millisecond. Signiﬁcant challenges must be overcome in designing a
system architecture such that data intensive and/or latency sensitive applications can obtain the information
that they need for peak performance. Information-Centric Networking (ICN) has the potential to enable
wireless eﬃciencies that are critical to support the strict guarantees desired by new applications such as
virtual and augmented reality (VR/AR). The goal of this project is to design, develop and demonstrate
SPLICE, a Secure Predictive Low-Latency Information-Centric Edge wireless network that will be able to
provide information guarantees to such emerging applications. This talk will discuss the major results of the
project and the way forward. The project is a collaborative eﬀort across Texas A&M University, the Ohio
State University, Purdue University, Washington University at St. Louis, and the University of Illinois at
Urbana-Champaign.


Update on ICN-Enabled Secure Edge Networking with Augmented Re-
ality (ICE-AR)
        Jeﬀ Burke      UCLA REMAP
    This short talk will provide an overview and update on the ICN-Enabled Secure Edge Networking with
Augmented Reality (ICE-AR) project, which is supported by the NSF/Intel ICN-WEN program. ICE-AR is
a collaborative eﬀort of UCLA, Florida International University, and New Mexico State University. Finishing
its third year, the project explores how Named Data Networking can support next generation wireless edge
networking applications by integrating cross-layer wireless optimizations, data-centric security, acceleration-
as-a-service, and new, ICN-inspired application concepts. This talk will provide a brief project overview and
highlights from the last year, along with next steps for the work.



Session 3: Routing and Forwarding
On the Preﬁx Granularity Problem in NDN Adaptive Forwarding
        Teng Liang            Peng Cheng Laboratory
        Junxiao Shi           National Institute of Standards and Technology
        Beichuan Zhang        The University of Arizona
    One unique architectural beneﬁt of Named Data Networking (NDN) is adaptive forwarding, i.e., the
forwarding plane is able to observe data retrieval performance of past Interests and use it to adjust forwarding
decisions of future Interests. To be eﬀective, adaptive forwarding assumes what we call Interest Routing
Locality, that Interests sharing the same preﬁx are likely to take the same or similar forwarding path within
a short time window, thus past observation can be an indicator of future performance. Since Interests can
have multiple common preﬁxes with diﬀerent lengths, the real challenge is what preﬁx length should be used
in adaptive forwarding. The longer the common preﬁx is, the better Interest Path Locality, but the fewer
future Interests it covers and the larger the forwarding table size. Existing implementations use static preﬁx
length, which is known to have problems in dealing with partial network failures. In this presentation, I
will introduce our work on dynamically aggregate and de-aggregate name preﬁxes in the forwarding table,
so to use the preﬁxes that are the most appropriate under the current network situation. To reduce the
overhead, we design mechanisms to minimize the use of longest preﬁx match in the processing of Data
packets. Simulations demonstrate that the proposed techniques can make better forwarding decisions under
partial network failures with signiﬁcantly reduced overhead.




                                                       4
m-ASF - An Adaptive SRTT-based Forwarding Strategy for Mobile En-
vironments
       Muktadir Chowdhury           University of Memphis
       Alexander Lane               University of Memphis
       Lan Wang                     University of Memphis
    Adaptive SRTT based Forwarding (ASF) strategy was originally developed to aid Hyperbolic Routing
which could create persistent suboptimal paths. The strategy adapts to network dynamics by utilizing
NDN’s stateful forwarding and actively probing the data plane. However, ASF was designed for generally
stable networks with static nodes. Therefore, it does not perform well in the presence of mobile nodes, where
network topology varies frequently. In this work, we propose an improved ASF strategy for mobile networks,
called m-ASF. The proposed strategy uses multiple paths when the primary path is experiencing failures.
However, to prevent premature and frequent changing of faces, m-ASF employs anti-oscillation mechanism.
We have done a comparative analysis of m-ASF and ASF. Our results show that m-ASF is more eﬀective
than ASF in retrieving data in dynamic environment. The performance gain is attributed to m-ASF’s faster
exploration of new paths and ﬁner granularity in face-ranking.


NDN-DPDK: NDN Forwarding at 100 Gbps on Commodity Hardware
       Junxiao Shi               NIST
       Davide Pesavento          NIST
       Lotﬁ Benmohamed           NIST
    Since the NDN data plane requires name-based lookup of potentially large tables using variable-length
hierarchical names as well as per-packet state updates, achieving high-speed NDN forwarding remains a
challenge. In order to address this gap, we developed a high-performance NDN router capable of reaching
forwarding rates higher than 100 Gbps while running on commodity hardware. In this paper we present our
design and discuss its tradeoﬀs. We achieved this performance through several optimization techniques that
include adopting better algorithms and eﬃcient data structures, as well as making use of the parallelism
oﬀered by modern multi-core CPUs and multiple hardware queues with user-space drivers for kernel bypass.
Our open-source forwarder is the ﬁrst software implementation of NDN to exceed 100 Gbps throughput,
while supporting the full protocol semantics. We also present the results of extensive benchmarking carried
out to assess a number of performance dimensions and to diagnose the current bottlenecks in the packet
processing pipeline for future scalability enhancements. Finally, we identify future work which includes
hardware-assisted ingress traﬃc dispatching, dynamic load balancing across parallel forwarding threads, and
novel caching solutions to accommodate on-disk content stores.



Session 4: DARPA SHARE
DARPA Secure Handhelds on Assured Resilient networks at the tactical
Edge (SHARE)
       Mary Schurgot        DARPA
    The DARPA Secure Handhelds on Assured Resilient networks at the tactical Edge (SHARE) program is
developing security and networking architectures and software for sharing information across multiple security
levels. SHARE addresses several technology challenges to enable tactical edge, small unit information sharing
between coalition and U.S. forces. Speciﬁcally, SHARE employs named data networking (NDN) to provide
resilient secure store and forward capabilities to overcome brittle end-to-end connections.




                                                      5
PLI-Sync: Prefetch Loss-Insensitive Sync for NDN Group Streaming
       Yi Hu                    Perspecta Labs
       Constantin Serban        Perspecta Labs
       Lan Wang                 University of Memphis
       Alex Afanasiev           FIU
       Lixia Zhang              UCLA
    In this paper we explore solutions to robust group communication in disadvantaged wireless networks,
which exhibit low bandwidths, high packet loss, and frequent/permanent network partitions. More specif-
ically, we propose a group communication protocol based on Named Data Networking (NDN). By design
NDN’s in-network caching and stateful forwarding plane can help improve data delivery robustness in disad-
vantaged networks, however, when content is generated at a non-deterministic rate, an eﬃcient, low-overhead
synchronization protocol is needed to inform group members of the new content to fetch. To address this
need, we propose Prefetch Loss-Insensitive Sync (PLI-Sync) protocol, specialized for group communication
in highly disadvantaged networks. PLI-Sync combines optimistic content prefetching with selective con-
tent notiﬁcation and addresses the challenges of distinguishing wireless packet losses from mobility-induced
disconnections, and between data availability and retrievability. Our evaluations show that leveraging the
interplay between NDN’s stateful data plane and a low rate sync protocol can signiﬁcantly reduce commu-
nication overhead compared to solely relying on sync protocols, while maintaining low data transfer latency
and robust delivery in a variety of wireless conditions and traﬃc load settings.


NDN in DARPA SHARE
       John DeHart       Washington University in St. Louis
   We give an update on our team’s progress in the DARPA SHARE project and highlight some of the
modiﬁcations and additions to NDN we have made. Some of the unique aspects of networking with tactical
radios have lead us to some application and topology speciﬁc modiﬁcations to overcome challenges in inter-
mittent, lossy and at times segmented network environments. These modiﬁcations include a new NDN sync
protocol (ICT-Sync), and new NFD strategies to help reduce the network load.



Session 5: IoT/Edge
The “Decision Maker”: NDN concepts for intelligent automation
       Marie-Jose Montpetit        Concordia University Montreal
    IoT systems are fast becoming data driven intelligent system that can accomplish real time tasks but
also combine with edge and cloud computing to deliver complex decision-making. This is enabled by the
availability of powerful sensors, cameras and edge devices that constantly communicate among themselves
and with other systems in the “cloud-edge” continuum. The move to data networking is happening across
a wide swath of potential applications from intelligent cars to self managed farming systems. Yet, not
all data captured by the sensors is at the same level of importance or dedicated to the same decision
system. Also, the networked micro-controllers are better addressed by name than by obscure addresses.
The presentation will introduce the “Decision Maker” a layered NDN enabled architecture for distributed
intelligent automation. “Decision maker” combines named entities, interest/data information ﬁltering and
discovery as well as semantic web concepts to provide a framework for next generation IoT. The presentation
will focus on the main elements of the architecture as well as introducing use cases to show its usefulness.




                                                     6
MICN, a New Perspective on Network Coding with Named Data Net-
working
       Hirah Malik               INRIA
       Cedric Adjih              INRIA
       Claudio Weidmann          ENSEA
       Michel Kieﬀer             CentraleSupelec


Overview
    This submission is for a presentation in the NDN community meeting. Network coding (NC) can provide
dramatic performance gains for NDN; we will present our new protocol designed to integrate it with NDN.
Its goal is to maximize throughput. There are three parts: 1) a key mathematical problem that we identiﬁed
that must be addressed for maximal performance, 2) our solution to it, and 3) ﬁnally, and most importantly
its development as a full protocol. Emphasis will be on NDN protocol aspects, description of the design space,
possible modiﬁcations, some approaches that work, others that work less well, and the ones we adopted.

Why Network Coding?
    With network coding, one can add packets (XOR), or more generally make linear combinations. A
consumer would send an Interest that is propagated in the network and could receive coded answers from
several producers. For instance, upon receiving 3 coded Data Q1 = P1 ⊕P2 , Q2 = P1 ⊕P3 , Q3 = P1 ⊕P2 ⊕P3 ,
it can recover the original content P1 , P2 , P3 with elementary algebra (e.g. P3 = Q1 ⊕Q3 , etc.).
    Thus a consumer could recover a lot of (non-redundant) content even without coordination of the
providers. Without coding, redundancy is expected. As advocated by Montpetit et al. [2], NC ideally
complements NDN features: decoupling the consumers from the content providers, and natural support for
multiple paths. Thus, several protocols combining NC and ICN have been presented in the past, including
NetcodNDN by Saltarin et al. [3], and our proposal, MICN [1].

What is the Problem with Multiple Interests?
    NC is perfect to avoid (or limit) redundancy when only one Interest is sent. To increase throughput,
a consumer can send several Interests in parallel: the challenge is to guarantee that the same number of
non-redundant coded Data packets are retrieved. Indeed, without constraints on replies, the same Data
packet could satisfy all Interests.
    Assume that the Interests are numbered, and the corresponding coded Data for a speciﬁc indexed Interest
is constrained to belong to a ﬁxed set. Guaranteeing non-redundancy can be formalized as a mathematical
problem (that we also denote “Sets Ensuring Linear Independent Traversals” (SELIT problem)).

What is our Novel Approach (MILIC)?
    In [1], we introduced a special construction constraining the coded Data packets that satisfy a given
Interest called MILIC (Multiple Interest for Linearly Independent Content). It solves the preciously explained
problem by allowing multiple parallel Interests and ensures retrieval of linearly independent Data packet with
each Interest. It also has other properties.

How did we Construct a new Protocol (MICN)?
    MILIC is only a part of the NC solution for NDN. We designed a full protocol that integrates it, called
MILIC-ICN (MICN) [1]. It has been implemented in a high-level simulator in Python to capture NDN’s
essential semantics and to experiment with NC-enabled variants. MICN achieves near-maximal throughput
(max-ﬂow) on tested examples.
    NDN’s general operation had to be modiﬁed, in the high-level semantics and the protocol functioning
(PIT, FIB, caching). This includes classical NC adaptations, such as managing NC per subset of packets


                                                      7
(“generations”), maintaining coded caches, performing decoding and recoding in the routers, and establishing
conventions for names.
    For high-level semantics, MICN revisits subtle questions such as merging similar Interests from diﬀerent
users: our current design chooses not to do so. An optional interest cancellation mechanism is also introduced.
    Then support for MILIC-speciﬁc semantics requires additions: adding an index in Interest names, gener-
ating coded Data packets satisfying the MILIC constraints, pipelining multiple Interests, and proper support
in case of packet losses.
    Finally, getting protocol details right requires eﬀorts: MICN is no exception. We found that a critical
part was introducing careful queue management for satisﬁed pending PIT entries. We will also discuss the
remaining issues and on-going work, such as the integration of sophisticated interest forwarding strategies.

References:
   [1] H Malik, C Adjih, C Weidmann, and M Kieﬀer. MICN: a Network Coding Protocol for ICN with
Multiple Distinct Interests per Generation.arXiv preprint arXiv:2007.01128, 2020.
   [2] M.-J. Montpetit, C. Westphal, and D. Trossen. Network coding meets information-centric networking:
An architectural case for information dispersion through native network coding.MobiHoc, (2):31–36, 2012.
   [3] J. Saltarin, E. Bourtsoulatze, N. Thomos, and T. Braun. Adaptive Video Streaming With Network
Coding Enabled Named Data Networking. IEEE transactions on multimedia, 19(10):2182–2196, 2017.


A Named Data Networking Architecture Design to Internet of Under-
water Things
        Qi Zhao            University of California, Los Angeles
        Zheng Peng         The City College of New York
        Xiaoyan Hong       The University of Alabama
    The Internet of Underwater Things (IoUT) advances our ability in exploring oceans, lakes and rivers
through multiple communication technologies that connect stationary and mobile nodes underwater, at the
surface and in the sky. However, characteristics such as low data rate, long propagation delay, energy-
constraint, device mobility and sparsity, etc. of underwater communications remain as major challenges to
the potential beneﬁts that IoUT can bring to data availability and data sciences. This paper mainly focuses
on further exploring how the Named Data Networking (NDN), a future Internet architecture, addresses the
challenges of IoUT and can be adapted to potentially provide a simpliﬁed, eﬃcient, and secure implementa-
tion of IUWT. The IoUT network and application semantics are aligned with the data-centric communication
model of NDN, which enables operators to deploy and conﬁgure networks more easily, and developers to
focus more on “things” and data underwater. The paper starts from introducing new challenges in IoUT
and then illustrating in detail with simple examples to show how to employ NDN architecture to IoUT and
how to enable additional functionalities required by IoUT. We also elaborate on the detail of our way of
thinking and the remaining challenges while applying NDN to IoUT scenarios for future research directions.


Improving Existing Software Applications with a Practical and Secure
NDN Publish/Subscribe Transport
        Randy King             Operant Networks
        Jeﬀ Thompson           Operant Networks
        Kathleen Nichols       Pollere Inc.
   Operant Networks is a startup founded in 2015 to initially address the problem of unreliable and insecure
communications to renewable energy sites through NDN. We have since broadened our scope to include a
wide range of energy industry applications, all with a strong focus on cybersecurity. Working in partnership
with Pollere, UCLA, US Air Force, US Department of Energy, and key industry partners we have developed


                                                      8
an interesting NDN-based transport to replace an existing TCP/IP publication/subscribe framework in a
cybersecurity intrusion detection system.
   Historically, industrial networks are secured through perimeter ﬁrewalls to exclude malicious traﬃc. It is
well known that these eﬀorts are fraught with diﬃculty and unlikely to be completely eﬀective at excluding
determined attacks. In response, intrusion detection systems (‘IDS’) have become a growing market segment,
aided by two realizations:

   • Nearly all network traﬃc is encrypted and diﬃcult to inspect in a ﬁrewall
   • Advanced hackers tend to lurk in networks for weeks, learning the details of the site, before imple-
     menting their ﬁnal attack; allowing time to detect their presence

    Probably the most advanced IDS systems are based on distributed internal sensors: network packet
sniﬀers deployed throughout a campus to monitor internal traﬃc as well as that leaving the site. A leading
example of this type of IDS is Zeek (zeek.org), developed over decades as an open source project. It was
developed from early on as a distributed system; a cluster of multiple packet sniﬀer instances on multiple
physical servers collaborate to aggregate and analyze large amounts of distributed information.
    Recently, Zeek re-architected their IDS framework to utilize a publish/subscribe model over discrete
TCP/IP links secured by SSH. This communications paradigm provided Operant an opportunity to replace
it with an NDN-based multicast pub/sub transport. In addition to the known security beneﬁts of NDN,
this transport demonstrates the ﬁrst commercial use of ﬁne grained and deployable trust schemas within a
pub/sub framework. Our belief is that the intrusion monitoring solution must be much more secure than
the underlying customer network or it provides little added security value.
    Additionally, the NDN transport utilizes VLAN UDP multicast to remove many of the practical headaches
of installing a distributed system within a TCP/IP network; reducing the need to maintain certiﬁcates or
static IP addresses. A large IDS installation might utilize hundreds of sensor appliances, this could become
an overwhelming maintenance burden in the TCP/IP world.
    Most generally, we have learned that deploying NDN in an existing communications model (pub-
lish/subscribe) is a much easier path to commercialization than switching applications or their users from
a TCP-based model to an Interest/Data exchange paradigm. We implemented the NDN Pub/Sub with an
MQTT-like API (the most popular IoT Pub/Sub) and look forward to discovering other existing applications
that can beneﬁt from our lightweight secure transport and its complex trust models and broker-less pub-sub
framework.



Session 6: Security/MAC
Rolling out NDN for DDoS Mitigation
       Zhiyi Zhang           UCLA
       Sichen Song           UCLA
       Angelos Stavrou       George Mason University
       Eric Osterweil        George Mason University
       Lixia Zhang           UCLA
    Distributed Denial of Service (DDoS) attacks have plagued the Internet for decades, but the basic defense
approaches have not fundamentally changed. Rather, the size and rate of growth in attacks have actually
outpaced carriers’ and DDoS mitigation services’ growth, calling for new solutions that can be, partially or
fully, deployed imminently and exhibit eﬀectiveness.
    In this talk, we examine the basic functions in Named Data Networking (NDN), a newly proposed Internet
architecture, that can address the principle weaknesses in today’s IP networks.
    We demonstrate by a new DDoS mitigation solution over NDN, Fine-grained Interest Traﬃc Throttling
FITT, that NDN’s architectural changes, even when incrementally deployed, can make DDoS attacks funda-
mentally more diﬃcult to launch and less eﬀective. FITT leverages the NDN design to enable the network to



                                                     9
detect DDoS from victim’s feedback, throttles DDoS traﬃc by reverse its exact paths through the network,
and enforces control over the misbehaving entities at their sources.
    Our extensive simulation results show that FITT can throttle attack traﬃc with one-way time delay from
the victim to the NDN gateway; upon activation, FITT eﬀectively stop attack traﬃc from impacting benign
ﬂows, resulting in over 99% of packets reaching victims being legitimate ones. We further demonstrate that
service providers may implement NDN/FITT on existing CDN nodes as an incrementally deployable solution
to eﬀectuate the application- level remediation at the sources, which remains unattainable in today’s DDoS
mitigation approaches.


Secure Sharing of Spatio-temporal Data through Name-based Access
Control
       Laqin Fan      University of Memphis
       Lan Wang       University of Memphis
    Named Data Networking (NDN) is proposed as a future Internet architecture, which provides name-based
data publishing and fetching primitive. Compared to TCP/IP, NDN removes the need to manage IP address
and has semantically meaningful names, NDN has stateful and name-based forwarding which simpliﬁes the
network stack, NDN’s data-centric security and in-network caching are more eﬃcient than cloud-based data
delivery and encrypted channel. Name-based Access Control (NAC) is a content-based access control in
NDN, which requires access control by encrypting content at the time of production directly without relying
on a third-party (i.e., Cloud) to host the contents, and utilizes NDN’s hierarchical naming convention to
express access control policy and accomplish automating key distribution. As more sensitive data is generated
and stored, there will be a need to share the data securely, such as mobile health (mHealth) data, data from
smart-home systems. These data are generated over time and/or location, and could be collected as ongoing
data streams. The data owners may want to share entire data or a time-location-speciﬁc subset of the
data based on their preferences. Therefore, access control to those data must address the spatio-temporal
attributes, and support secure real-time data sharing as well. An eﬀective and secure access control solution
is required to ensure that only authorized users can access to certain data. Inspired by Named-based Access
Control model with data-centric security, we take into account the data attributes to make access decisions.
By specifying access control policies with time and/or location attributes, we could limit data access to
a given time bound and/or location area. In this work, we make three contributions: (1) we design an
NDN’s semantically structured naming convention to express ﬁne-grained access control policy on spatio-
temporal data, (2) for real-time data sharing, we deploy PSync to have a publish-subscribe module, (3) we
have implemented a practical spatial-temporal data access control prototype based on NAC library in NDN
codebase. Moreover, we evaluate the performance using Mini-NDN for diﬀerent content key granularity.


A Full Data-centric Network Stack Integrating V-MAC and NFD
       Mohammed Elbadry           Stony Brook University
       Fan Ye                     Stony Brook University
       Peter Milder               Stony Brook University
       YuanYuan Yang              Stony Brook University
    Current NFD performance on wireless networks is severely obstructed by the lack of a true data-centric
MAC layer. Building on top of V-MAC, our novel data-centric MAC prototype that oﬀers high rate (up to
65Mbps on pi and 900 mbps on another platform), low loss (1-3%) multicast support (dozens of receivers),
we present V-MAC NFD Link Protocol (V-NLP), a Link Protocol integrating V-MAC and NFD for a
fully data-centric network stack. The new stack eliminates the network grouping concept, and enables
pub/sub abstraction at the radio level. V-NLP allows researchers and developers to run NFD over V-MAC
with multiple frame types (Interest, Data, Announcement, Implicit Interest), customized data rates, and
conﬁgurable multicast support. This fully data-centric stack will enable NFD to achieve high performance


                                                     10
for applications in vehicles, drones and IoT environments. The source code for V-NLP, V-MAC and ﬁrmware
for supported chipsets will be released to the community.



Session 7: Discovery/Conﬁguration
Plug-n-Play NDN
       Eric Newberry           UCLA
       Tianyuan Yu             UCLA
       Zhiyi Zhang             UCLA
       John Dellaverson        UCLA
       Lixia Zhang             UCLA
   A major barrier to the adoption of NDN is the high manual eﬀort required to set up and conﬁgure a
functioning NDN network consisting of multiple hosts. To date, such conﬁguration has required manual
conﬁguration on every host to establish initial content reachability and manual reconﬁguration of links
between forwarders whenever there is a topology change. These conﬁguration tasks are particularly diﬃcult
when one is working with embedded or IoT devices. Meanwhile, with IP networks, one can connect multiple
end devices together in a local network and have them “just work”. Therefore, to help encourage the
adoption of NDN beyond the research community, we have developed “Plug-n-Play NDN”, where an NDN
environment can easily established in a LAN environment. We demonstrate its eﬀectiveness using a small
example scenario.


NDNSD: Service Discovery in NDN
       Saurab Dulal       The University of Memphis
       Lan Wang           The University of Memphis
    Service discovery (SD) is a fundamental requirement of contemporary networking systems. modern web,
IoT application, building management, smart device, LAN, WAN, mobile application, etc depends on SD in
a way or another. The proliferation of the applications towards the edge, rapid expansion and advancement
of IoT and sensor networks, cloud computing, etc have pushed the service discovery to the next level of
importance. It is also changing the dynamics of how the services and resources were discovered and used
in the past. Furthermore, the pervasive nature of wireless networks and mobile devices has underscored
its importance and is expected to be even more in the future. This presentation introduces NDNSD, a
general-purpose, fully distributed, and scalable service publishing and discovery mechanism for NDN using
the NDN synchronization protocol.
    Data synchronization protocol plays a crucial role in NDN. The original NDN architecture envisioned
combining sync protocol with application accessible libraries to provide transport functionalities to the
applications. The application accessible libraries should hide the core network functionalities and primitives
such as interest and data from the applications, and the sync should help the transfer of data from one
application to another. The Internet protocol stack is a well-known example of such a model – best known
as the hourglass model. Remaining in the realm of the internet hourglass model, releasing the importance
of SD in NDN, and taking inspiration from some of the previous works, we design and developed NDNSD.
It is an application accessible reusable library that uses synchronization protocol for service announcements
and discovery. We view service discovery problems as data synchronization problems. Some applications
actively looking to discover services while others trying to advertise the services. There are several beneﬁts
of using sync for SD i) no external dependencies or demanding change in network layer – sync comes with
NDN natively ii) inherently supports multi-way communications, iii) Flexibility to implement application
semantic and so on. Furthermore, two or more parties can agree on a common sync group. This applies to
local as well as global applications or devices. A mobile application can agree on sync group “/letschat”,
whereas printer services can agree on “/printers”. Similarly, IoT and edge applications can have their sync


                                                     11
group. Unlike the limitation in TCP/IP, these names (sync group) can be directly used in the network
layer which gives huge ﬂexibility to applications implementing their semantics and reﬂective names that can
identify their services. Through this presentation, we will also share some of the results and experience
gained through our real-world experiments and testing of the NDNSD at The University of Memphis.


NDN Repo for Genomics Datasets - Progress and Future Directions
       Zhaoning Kong             UCLA/Purdue
       Zixuan Zhong              UCLA
       Alex Feltus               Clemson University
       Susmit Shannigrahi        Tennessee Tech University
       Lixia Zhang               UCLA
    The genomics community publishes and retrieves a large amount of datasets. Currently, such large
datasets are collected to, and distributed from, centralized repositories such as the National Center for
Biotechnology Information (NCBI) which hosts more than 42 petabytes of DNA sequence data; similar
repositories exist in other countries, such as Japan and UK, as well. Due to the advancement in sequenc-
ing technology and simulation capacities, institutional laboratories are also generating and hosting a large
amount of geographically distributed datasets. Making NDN the substrate for genomic workﬂows is expected
to make big data movement and sharing simpler and more eﬃcient. Given that genomics dataset names
already follow hierarchical and semantically meaningful naming schemes that are agreed upon by the com-
munity, these names can be easily converted to NDN names, which can then be used to publish, discover,
and retrieve these datasets.
    The recently developed NDN python-repo by UCLA provides a promising solution for serving genomic
datasets. In an eﬀort to evaluate NDN for serving genomics data, we published actual datasets from NCBI’s
Sequence Read Archive (SRA) database into the NDN science testbed (originally created by Colorado State
University and later extended to Caltech and Northeastern). The purpose of this experiment is to investigate
location transparent data retrieval and insertion into genomics workﬂows. We created containerized genomics
workﬂows on the Paciﬁc research platform (PRP). We conﬁgured these containers to utilize NDN tools to
retrieve SRA sequences from the NDN science testbed; in this process, we have successfully published and
retrieved up to 1.4TB of science data using python-repo.
    The current python-repo stores a single copy of datasets only, which is subject to a single point of
failure. To address this issue, we have sketched out an initial design to enhance python-repo with automated
replication function among a given set of repo instances. This design utilizes anycast to attract user data
insertion requests to the repo instance R that is closest to the requester, then R uses one-hop DHT to
determine the other repo instances to replicate the received data ﬁle. Following the same anycast routing,
data fetching requests are attracted to a repo instance R2 close to the requester, and R2 again uses one-hop
DHT to ﬁnd out the replica of the requested data ﬁle. We will also report our initial design of inter-repo
communication protocol which handles the dynamics of the repo set, such as repo failures and recoveries, as
well as new repo insertions and removals.



Posters and Demos
NDNViber: Vibration-Assisted Automated Bootstrapping of IoT De-
vices
       Sanjeev Kaushik Ramani          Florida International University
       Proyash Podder                  Florida International University
       Alex Afanasyev                  FIU
   The rapid proliferation of sensors and their use in the modern Internet of Things (IoT) environment has



                                                    12
led to a highly connected environment. For these inexpensive and connected devices to function eﬃciently,
they need to communicate with each other as per the application they support. Communication with the
correct entity and joining the correct network to share information are necessary operations. The action
of pairing such devices securely so that they can trust the information exchange between them is termed
as onboarding / trust bootstrapping. Bootstrapping is usually a highly cumbersome process, especially in
resource-constrained and interface- less devices, which may not be accessible even physically after installation.
In this paper, we propose NDNViber which compliments the existing bootstrapping techniques used in NDN
based IoT networks. NDNViber provides NDN based networks with a dynamic, usable and secure out-
of-band communication scheme using modulated vibrations to bootstrap multiple devices simultaneously
and works in devices without any user interfaces. We implement a prototype that involves a commodity
smartphone as the controller that can bootstrap many small IoT devices that possess accelerometer sensors.
With NDNViber, we also analyze the bootstrapping of IoT devices that are inaccessible due to their physical
orientation and deployment locations.


NDNts: Named Data Networking libraries for the Modern Web
        Junxiao Shi      yoursunny.com
   NDNts enables Named Data Networking in modern web applications. It works both at the frontend in
modern browsers and at the backend in Node.js server runtime, and can be used in both TypeScript and
JavaScript projects.
   This short presentation / demo showcases some of the best features in NDNts and how they make
developer’s life easier. This includes:

   • automatic Interest retransmissions
   • automated certiﬁcate issuance via NDNCERT
   • declarative trust schema

   The demo will use a combination of code samples and screenshots. Participants will be able to interact
with some web applications on the Internet.


Towards a Distance Vector Routing Protocol for Named Data Network-
ing
        Italo Valcy Da Silva Brito        Federal University of Bahia (UFBA)
        Leobino Sampaio                   Federal University of Bahia (UFBA)
        Lixia Zhang                       UCLA
    Ad hoc mobile scenarios desire a lightweight routing protocol that can help propagate rapidly changing
data reachability information in a highly dynamic environment. The currently deployed Named-Data Net-
working (NDN) routing protocol, NLSR, is based on link-state algorithms, which require synchronization of
the link-state database which can be diﬃcult to achieve in the above-intended scenario. We are developing
a distance-vector routing protocol that enables each node to selectively propagate a data reachability vector
containing the named-data preﬁxes current reachable to their neighbors. Such reachability information can
be propagated transitively, allowing all reachable nodes at the time to estimate their reachability to desired
data in a distributed and asynchronous manner. This poster presents our work in progress and prototype of
the NDN Distance Vector Routing (NDVR) protocol. The initial design of NDVR consists of the simplest
possible way to propagate name preﬁx reachability information based on distance vector algorithms. The
protocol lets dynamically identiﬁed neighbor nodes use NDN’s Interest and Data packets to propagate rout-
ing updates and runs in two main phases: (i) dynamic neighbor discovery (hello) and (ii) distance-vector
information exchange (dvinfo). NDVR prototype is being developed on the ndnSIM simulation environment.
We will provide a preliminary evaluation of NDVR’s eﬃciency and eﬀectiveness as compared to the cases of
not using a routing protocol such as DDSN (Distributed Dataset Synchronization over disruptive Networks).


                                                       13
CertCoalesce: Eﬃcient Certiﬁcate Pool for NDN-Based Systems
        Sanjeev Kaushik Ramani            Florida International University
        Alex Afanasyev                    FIU
    Named Data Networking (NDN) relies on public key sign- ing to ensure integrity and authenticity for all
data packets fetched in the network. One of the considerations for reliability of such signing is limiting the
scope (what the key can sign) and time (how long the key can sign) of the public keys and their certiﬁcates,
usually referred to as “least privilege principle.” Traditionally, the public key certiﬁcates are issued for relative
long periods of times measured in months or years; which requires considerations for certiﬁcate revocation,
e.g, when the private key is lost or compromised. However, if the validity periods can be reduced to days
or hours, the complex (and sometimes semi-broken) revocation mechanisms can be completely eliminated.
This poster proposes such a mechanism—CertCoalesce certiﬁcates—to eﬃciently manage virtually unlimited
pools of short-term certiﬁcates with limited networking, storage, and computational overheads. Speciﬁcally, a
single certiﬁcate request with a “primary” key can be used to bootstrap the process of creating an unlimited
number of short-term certiﬁcates for derivative private/public keys. Moreover, such certiﬁcates can be
issued asynchronously—periodically pre-provisioned or upon request with an Interest—terminating issuance
of future certiﬁcates when necessary. Moreover, CertCoalesce design owing to the underlying elliptic curve
cryptography ensures that a compromised key from the pool of keys will not reveal information about other
keys/certiﬁcates in the pool.


Managing NDN with the Multiverse Network Management System
        Amar Abane                 National Institute of Standards and Technology
        Abdella Battou             National Institute of Standards and Technology
        Omar El Mimouni            National Institute of Standards and Technology
        Asmaa Hailane              National Institute of Standards and Technology
        Mheni Merzouki             National Institute of Standards and Technology
        Davide Pesavento           National Institute of Standards and Technology
        Junxiao Shi                National Institute of Standards and Technology
        Lotﬁ Benmohamed            National Institute of Standards and Technology
    As an emerging networking architecture for the future Internet, Named Data Networking (NDN) needs
innovative management tools to facilitate the conﬁguration and monitoring of NDN deployments, such as
for testbed experimentation or research evaluations. The Multiverse Network Management System (MNMS)
project at NIST aims at providing a feature-rich solution for conﬁguring, monitoring and managing NDN
networks. Although MNMS is designed with commercial (IP) network management features in mind (e.g.,
FCAPS), a great attention is dedicated to natively supporting the information-centric concepts of NDN.
MNMS deﬁnes two main entities. First, the management agent running on each managed node (e.g., a
forwarder or a server) provides an interface to interact with it either locally or remotely. Second, the
controller, which represents the central controlling entity of MNMS, provides a set of services such as topology,
routing, conﬁguration, notiﬁcation, and telemetry. Considering potential NDN deployments with current
forwarding implementations (e.g., NDN-DPDK forwarder), MNMS entities are designed to communicate
either using the NDN protocol, or over an IP-based protocol such as HTTPS. The agents and the controller
interact in order to provide two sets of services accessible via a Web-based user interface: (i) telemetry which
allows the operator to trigger customized measurements and collect results, and (ii) network management
through which the operator conﬁgures and manages the network, assisted by the automatic processing
features of the controller.




                                                         14
A Novel P4 Target Architecture for Runtime-Reconﬁgurable NDN Data
Planes
        Ouassim Karrakchou         University of Ottawa
        Nancy Samaan               University of Ottawa
        Ahmed Karmouch             University of Ottawa
    One main limitation that is currently receiving much attention in both the IP and Named Data Network-
ing (NDN) research communities is the limited ability to dynamically reconﬁgure the network data plane
in a top-bottom approach. Rather than allowing network operators to deﬁne and conﬁgure their switch
functionalities, network switches are still designed with pre-dictated functionalities and oﬀer little ﬂexibil-
ity with respect to their reconﬁgurations. In these, switches, data plane algorithms/protocols are mostly
hardcoded on chips and can only be changed by the switch manufacturers. This, in turn, limits their ca-
pacity to implement new protocols and hinders network operators’ ability to adapt to evolving applications
requirements.
    The programming protocol-independent packet processing language (P4) represents a promising solution
to the above limitation. Using P4, the control plane can program the forwarding behavior of the data plane
independently from the switch hardware. P4 is a high-level programming language that can be used to
describe how packets should be parsed, processed, and forwarded in the data plane. Network programmers
write P4 programs to describe diﬀerent behaviors (e.g., L3/L2 switches and load balancers) which are then
compiled and translated into switch-speciﬁc conﬁgurations and executables. Nonetheless, a main challenge
that is still facing current P4 architectures is switch runtime re-programmability. A P4 switch runs a single
P4 program that contains all its forwarding functionalities. Hence, a modiﬁcation related to the forwarding
behavior of a single ﬂow necessitates the recompilation of the program and reconﬁguration of the switch
which results in a switch down-time. Another additional limitation is that P4 is designed for ﬁxed-size
byte-based IP protocol headers, which makes P4 parsers, deparsers and match-action pipelines incompatible
with the variable-size string-based headers in NDN packets.
    In this poster, we address these limitations by presenting a novel P4-based NDN data plane that takes
advantage of the P4 programmability while maintaining the traditional formats of the NDN packets and
forwarding plane tables of NDN switches. NDN packets are ﬁrst matched against extended NDN PIT and
FIB tables, similar to traditional NDN switches, to determine their forwarding ports and to possibly associate
them with P4 functions preassigned to their namespaces. The packet headers are then parsed and forwarded
to one of the P4 functions. These P4 functions can perform measurements, execute advanced forwarding
strategies (e.g., decide next-hops based on measurements or forward packets to controllers) or selectively
modify packet headers. To facilitate runtime conﬁgurability, each P4 function runs in isolation from the other
programs and maintains its separate state. By controlling the granularity of the P4 program sharing among
the namespaces, and in turn, the forwarding paths, we can achieve a balance between function scalability
and runtime reconﬁgurability. To address the limitation of name processing in P4, content-name processing
is achieved at line-speed by designing a specialized NDN packet parser and deparser that are shared by all
the P4 programs match-action pipelines. Finally, to allow for advanced NDN packet processing, we show
how several behaviors can be implemented by extending the P4 language using extern functions. Our design
can be implemented on standard FPGA-based P4 hardware like the NetFPGA-SUME card.


On Using NDN to Vertically Secure Smart Power Distribution
        Sanjeev Kaushik Ramani          Florida International University
        Alex Afanasyev                  FIU
   Smart Grids is a modern adoption of power systems with the potential to revolutionize power distribution
and management. In a general setting, a smart grid system is composed of multiple stakeholders involved in
power generation, distribution and consumption. Eﬀective, secure and trustworthy communication among
these entities is crucial for the optimal operation of the system. Named Data Networking (NDN), the
prominent Information Centric Networking (ICN) model provides a conducive architectural design to support


                                                      15
the needs of this system. In this poster, we thus advocate the use of NDN which provides the consumers with
better service (QoS), experience (QoE) and vertical security when used in Smart power distribution. We
also discuss the data-centric security, data immutability and opportunistic in-network caching that provide
necessary accessories for enhanced grid operation.




                                                    16
